---
title: "Flow: Separating Consensus and Compute -- Block Formation and Execution"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-00-Flow
excerpt: ''
date: 2020-02-18
venue: 'Arxiv (White Paper at DapperLabs)'
paperurl: ''
---
Most current blockchains require all full nodes to execute all tasks limits the throughput of existing blockchains, which are well documented and among the most significant hurdles for the widespread adoption of decentralized technology.
This paper extends out presentation of Flow, a pipelined blockchain architecture, which separates the process of consensus on the transaction order from transaction computation. As we experimentally showed in our previous white paper, our architecture provides a significant throughput improvement while preserving the security of the system. Flow exploits the heterogeneity offered by the nodes, in terms of bandwidth, storage, and computational capacity, and defines the roles for the nodes based on their tasks in the pipeline, ie, Collector, Consensus, Execution, and Verification. While transaction collection from the user agents is completed through the bandwidth-optimized Collector Nodes, the execution of them is done by the compute-optimized Execution Nodes. Checking the execution result is then distributed among a more extensive set of Verification Nodes, which confirm the result is correct in a distributed and parallel manner. In contrast to more traditional blockchain architectures, Flow's Consensus Nodes do not execute the transaction. Instead, Verification Nodes report observed faulty executions to the Consensus Nodes, which adjudicate the received challenges and slash malicious actors.

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2002.07403.pdf)

Recommended citation: Hentschel, A., Hassanzadeh-Nazarabadi, Y., Seraj, R., Shirley, D., & Lafrance, L. (2020). Flow: Separating Consensus and Compute--Block Formation and Execution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.07403.
